# Math 353 - Probability and Statistics (Data Visualization Project)

## What is this repository for?
This repository was made to keep track of all the files I work with on this project as well as keeping a worklog of the work that I do.

## What is this project about? What are the goals for this project?
This project is about looking at the data provided to us by the United States of America Powerlifting Association (USAPL) databases. Specificially, I will be looking at the all time records for the federation and preparing a visualization of the data regarding how strength is measured across all different weight classes. Some commons questions that are constantly brought up in conversation regarding overall strength are ones such as: how should strength be measured? Who is the strongest of all time regardless of weight class? What strength measuring system is best? 

These questions provide for a great discussion amongst the powerlifting community as competitors are constantly breaking records, reshaping what was originally thought possible for humans. With the breaking of each record, strength measuring systems have been thought to become skewed. For example, measuring strength purely by bodyweight to weight lifted is skewed towards lighter individuals, indiciating that lighter individuals are stronger pound for pound. What would you consider a greater feat? Someone weighing 123 lbs deadlifitng 634 lbs or someone weighing around 385 lbs deadlifting 1,102 lbs? Looking at it from purely a bodyweight to weight lifted ratio, the lighter individual is at an insane 5.15 times bodyweight whereas the heavier individual is at a mere 2.86 times bodyweight. But here's the catch, 634 lbs has been deadlifted countless times; 1,102 lbs has only ever been deadlifted twice in the history of powerlifting.

## What is the motivation for this project? Why did I choose this project specifically?
I chose this project because ever since I graduated high school, I have dedicated a lot of time to lifting, specifically taking on a training style very similar to powerlifting. I started in June 2017 and have been lifting since (except for the time when gyms were shut down due to COVID-19). During that time, I have become somewhat well-versed in the sport of powerlifting and have also engaged with the community, following prominent figures in the sport for years now. I have not yet competed in the sport but I am scheduled to compete at the USA California State Championships 2022. You can find the website with my name on the roster here: https://liftingcast.com/meets/mkgs2jl9dyli/results
I am competing in the Men's Raw Juniors (20-23) Division in the 100 kg weight class.
